While the SABC might believe “retrenchment is not in our vocabulary“, an internal memo has warned management of six moratoria forbidding “remuneration adjustments”, filling positions, advertising of positions internally and externally, discussions about career advancement, transfer of employees and new offers of employment. “The above moratoria are due to the corporation’s contemplation of invoking Section 189 of the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995, as has been communicated to all employees and organised labour. We trust that the necessity of these measures is understood,” the memo, written by group executive for human resources, Jonathan Thekiso. Democratic Alliance shadow minister of communications, Phumzile van Damme, said in a statement that it was “bizarre” that this wasn’t mentioned when the SABC presented its turnaround strategy to Parliament last week. “While it may save costs, the DA challenges the SABC’s management to take the lead in demonstrating austerity by reviewing their salaries and taking cuts, where necessary,” said Van Damme. She pointed out that according to the SABC’s annual report for 2016/2017, the public broadcaster’s top management officials received “extraordinarily high” salaries. This was one of former COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s legacies. The GCEO earns R6.5 million, the CFO R4.1 million and the COO (Motsoeneng) R2.7 million (including an R11 million bonus for the MultiChoice deal). The salaries of group executives range from R3.8 million (GE: head of television), to R3.5 million (GE: risk and governance). Van Damme said it was still unclear what packages new top management would receive, and whether they were being paid “Hlaudi salaries”. “As such, an independent body must review all SABC top management salaries and place them at market value,” she said. “To demonstrate goodwill and unity with staff, top management ought to commit to not only freezing in their own salaries, and not resist any advice to reduce their salaries after the review is undertaken.” SABC staff were suffering from severe stress, Van Damme said, due to worry over being retrenched and not receiving annual inflation-related increases. Top management should show solidarity with staff, and freeze their own salaries, she said. Yolande van Biljon, the SABC’s new chief financial officer, told the portfolio committee on communications that the broadcaster owed its creditors R694 million, with further accruals of R475 million. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za