Attendees at last week’s IMM Graduate School of Marketing event, hosted by Nedbank, were treated to three insightful, thought-provoking speakers. First up was trend analyst and founder of Flux Trends, Dion Chang, who discussed the second wave of disruption for business and the skills and mind-set required for brands to pivot. “I call it the second wave of disruption, because you should be asking yourself ‘what was the first wave and did I miss it?’, and generally brands have missed digital transformation, and now we’re in the second wave,” Chang explained. He stressed that things were changing rapidly, and that “value chains have collapsed”. “Ask yourself where you sit in the value chain and are you in the firing line. If you are, it doesn’t mean your job will be completely obsolete, but it means you have to fragment your services to become relevant,” he added. Legacy companies are also dying, challenged by new age start-ups, so older, more experienced brands need to ensure they keep up with the times and evolve their strategies and models. Diversifying their services to include offerings that make sense to their core business will assist in this regard. “It’s no longer about big versus small, it’s about fast versus slow,” explained Chang. The sharing economy is also changing the business landscape, and it’s an important element that brands need to be aware of. The major tech advancements that are disrupting, according to Chang, are robotics and automation, algorithms and big data, and virtual reality and augmented reality. When incorporating tech, the nature of future jobs will change. Chang gave the example of a mechanic and software developer merging to create a self-driving technician specialist. “Industries are starting to poach talent from completely different sectors,” he revealed. Continuous learning and upskilling is crucial for employees to remain relevant. Here’s Chang speaking exclusively to The Media Online after the event: The second speaker was Jay Badza, founder of Orchard On 25. He discussed the death of the brand ambassador and the rise of influencer marketing. “Brand ambassadors used to be the face of brands, but they have disappeared. The rise of influencer marketing obliterated them,” he said. This trend has been driven by the proliferation of social media which, according to Badza, has allowed brands to be a little bit more flexible, fun and not be stuck in the olden days “We have entered an age of two way communication, whereas before marketing used to shout at people … Social media has democratised creativity,” he explained. “We are in the middle of a marketing revolution. It’s only those brands that are bold and ballsy who are going to stand the tide,” he added.  The third speaker was Joe Public United founder and group chief creative officer, Pepe Marais. He took attendees on an emotional journey as he spoke about breakthrough creative advertising and communication. His main takeaway for the audience was that, “brands need to be more on purpose”. “The world is perfect as it is, as it’s pointing us to a new way. But it’s a bit upside down as the bottom line is everyone’s top priority. Everything is about market share gains, sales and the numbers… We should push for something greater than money to stand for,” he explained. Marais also made the shocking statement that, “Less than one percent of what we do in our industry actually makes a significant difference to the community at large and to the brands. I’m surprised by the amount of money we waste with wallpaper… We should do work that inspires consumers and attracts them to your brand, which goes beyond the selling proposition.” Here’s Marais’ exclusive interview with The Media Online after the event:  Here are some pictures from the event: Michael Bratt is a multimedia journalist at Wag the Dog, publishers of The Media Online and The Media. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelBratt8 Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda@wagthedog.co.za or michael@wagthedog.co.za